End User License Agreement
for SUSE Software


End User License Agreement for SUSE Software
BY PURCHASING, INSTALLING, DOWNLOADING OR OTHERWISE USING THE 
SOFTWARE (AS DEFINED BELOW), YOU AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS 
AGREEMENT. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE TERMS, YOU ARE NOT 
PERMITTED TO DOWNLOAD, INSTALL OR USE THE SOFTWARE. AN INDIVIDUAL 
ACTING ON BEHALF OF AN ENTITY REPRESENTS THAT HE OR SHE HAS THE 
AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT ON BEHALF OF THAT ENTITY.  IF 
YOU ARE ACCEPTING THE AGREEMENT ON BEHALF OF AN ENTITY, THEN THE 
TERMS "YOU" AND "YOUR" REFER TO THAT ENTITY WHENEVER USED BELOW.

SUSE LLC ("Licensor" or "SUSE") makes available software products, 
which may include: (i) software programs developed by SUSE and/or 
its affiliates; (ii) software programs developed by third parties; 
(iii) compilations of software programs; and (iv) trade marks owned 
by SUSE and/or its affiliates ("SUSE Marks"), as well as 
documentation accompanying such software programs (such software 
programs, compilations of software programs, trade marks and 
documentation being the "Software").

This End User License Agreement ("EULA") is a legal agreement 
between You (a legal entity or a person) and SUSE and governs Your 
use of the Software. Any add-on, extension, update, mobile 
application, module, adapter or support release to the Software that 
You may download or receive that is not accompanied by another 
license agreement is Software governed by this EULA. If the laws of 
Your principal place of business require contracts to be in the 
local language to be enforceable, You can obtain a local language 
version by writing to Licensor and the local language version shall 
govern Your use of the Software.      
 
License Terms
Open Source
The Software contains many individual components that are open 
source software. The open source license for each component, which, 
depending on the software program, may be the GNU General Public 
License v.2(     
https://www.gnu.org/licenses/old-licenses/gpl-2.0.en.html), the 
Apache License version 2.0 
(https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0), or other open source 
license (each such license being the "OSS License"), is located in 
the licensing documentation and/or in the component's source code.
 
This EULA governs Your use of the Software, including SUSE Marks, 
but does not limit, supersede or modify your rights under the OSS 
License applicable to Your use of any open source code contained in 
the Software without the SUSE Marks.
 
The Software may be provided with third party programs that are not 
part of the Software. These third party programs are not required to 
run the Software, are provided as a convenience to you, and are 
subject to their own license terms. The license terms either 
accompany the third party programs or can be viewed at 
https://www.suse.com/licensing/eula/. If you do not agree to abide 
by the applicable license terms for the third party programs, then 
you should not install them. If you wish to install the third party 
programs on more than one system or transfer the third party 
programs to another party, then you must contact the licensor of the 
applicable third party programs.

License to use the Software
Subject to compliance with the terms and conditions of this EULA and 
of the applicable OSS License, you are granted a perpetual, non- 
exclusive, non-transferable, revocable, worldwide license to 
reproduce and use copies of the Software for Your legal entity's 
internal use. 
 
This EULA does not permit you to distribute the Software or its 
components using the SUSE Marks except that You may redistribute 
outside of Your legal entity: (a) copies of the Software, but only 
if permitted under a separate written agreement with Licensor 
authorizing such redistribution, or (b) the constituent components 
of the Software, but only if You remove and replace all occurrences 
of any SUSE Mark.

Ownership
The Software is licensed, not sold.  No title to or ownership of the 
Software is transferred to You. Licensor and/or the third party 
licensors retain all right, title and interest in and to all 
intellectual property rights in the Software.      

SUSE Marks
No right or license, express or implied, is granted under this EULA 
to use any SUSE Mark, trade name or service mark of Licensor or its 
affiliates or licensors.

Subscription Services and Support
Licensor has no obligation to provide maintenance or support unless 
otherwise agreed pursuant to an additional  agreement that expressly 
includes such services.

Warranty and Liability
Limited Warranty
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND. 
EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE RESTRICTED BY LAW, LICENSOR DISCLAIMS AND 
EXCLUDES ANY AND ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE, OR 
NON-INFRINGEMENT, NOR ARE THERE ANY WARRANTIES CREATED BY COURSE OF 
DEALING, COURSE OF PERFORMANCE OR TRADE USAGE.  LICENSOR DOES NOT 
WARRANT THAT THE SOFTWARE OR SERVICES WILL SATISFY YOUR 
REQUIREMENTS, BE COMPATIBLE WITH  YOUR OPERATING SYSTEMS, OR THAT 
THE OPERATION OF THE SOFTWARE WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR-FREE. 
THE FOREGOING EXCLUSIONS AND DISCLAIMERS ARE AN ESSENTIAL PART OF 
THIS AGREEMENT. Some jurisdictions do not allow certain disclaimers 
and limitations of warranties, so portions of the above limitations 
may not apply to You. This limited warranty gives You specific 
rights and You may also have other rights which vary by state or 
jurisdiction.

Limitation of Liability
NEITHER LICENSOR NOR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES, SHAREHOLDERS, DIRECTORS, 
OR EMPLOYEES WILL IN ANY CASE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CONSEQUENTIAL OR 
INDIRECT DAMAGES, WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE, TORT OR 
OTHER THEORY OF LIABILITY, OR FOR ANY LOSS OF PROFITS, BUSINESS OR 
LOSS OR CORRUPTION OF DATA, IN EACH CASE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE 
POSSIBILITY OF THOSE DAMAGES.

IN NO EVENT WILL LICENSOR'S AGGREGATE LIABILITY UNDER OR IN 
CONNECTION WITH THIS EULA (WHETHER IN ONE INSTANCE OR A SERIES OF 
INSTANCES) EXCEED $50 (U.S.).

The above exclusions and limitations will not apply to claims 
relating to death or personal injury caused by the negligence of 
Licensor or its employees, agents or contractors. In those 
jurisdictions that do not allow the exclusion or limitation of 
damages, including, without limitation, damages for breach of any 
implied terms as to title or quiet enjoyment of any Software 
obtained pursuant to this EULA or for fraudulent misrepresentation, 
Licensor's liability shall be limited or excluded to the maximum 
extent allowed within those jurisdictions.
 
General Terms
Law
All matters arising out of or relating to this EULA will be governed 
by the substantive laws of the United States and the State of New 
York without regard to its choice of law provisions. Any suit, 
action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this EULA may 
only be brought before a federal or state court of appropriate 
jurisdiction in New York. If, however, Your principal place of 
business is a member state of the European Union or the European 
Free Trade Association, (1) the courts of England and Wales shall 
have exclusive jurisdiction over any action of law relating to this 
EULA; and (2) the laws of England shall apply except where the laws 
of such country of Your principal place of business are required to 
be applied to any such action of law, in which case the laws of that 
country shall apply. Neither the Uniform Computer Information 
Transaction Act, the United Nations Convention of Contracts for the 
International Sale of Goods, nor the New York or England and Wales 
conflict of law rules apply to this EULA or its subject matter.

Entire Agreement
This EULA, together with any other purchase documents or other 
written agreement between You and Licensor or its Affiliates, sets 
forth the entire understanding and agreement between You and 
Licensor and may be amended or modified only by a written agreement 
agreed to by You and an authorized representative of Licensor. NO 
THIRD PARTY LICENSOR, DISTRIBUTOR, DEALER, RETAILER, RESELLER, SALES 
PERSON, OR EMPLOYEE IS AUTHORIZED TO MODIFY THIS AGREEMENT OR TO 
MAKE ANY REPRESENTATION OR PROMISE THAT IS DIFFERENT FROM, OR IN 
ADDITION TO, THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT.

Severability
If any provision in this EULA is invalid or unenforceable, that 
provision will be construed, limited, modified or, if necessary, 
severed, to the extent necessary, to eliminate its invalidity or 
unenforceability, and the other provisions of this EULA will remain 
unaffected. 

:version:2024-06-01:001
SUSE.com

Copyright (c) SUSE 2025

SUSE Legal		
June 2024
