# Internationalization (i18n)

**Table of Contents**

- [Internationalization (i18n)](#internationalization-i18n)
  - [Using Translations](#using-translations)
    - [URL Query Parameter](#url-query-parameter)
    - [Language Selector](#language-selector)
  - [Translations](#translations)
  - [The Workflow](#the-workflow)
  - [Staging Translation Repository](#staging-translation-repository)
  - [Synchronization](#synchronization)
    - [Uploading Translatable Texts](#uploading-translatable-texts)
    - [Downloading Updated Translations](#downloading-updated-translations)
  - [Weblate Configuration](#weblate-configuration)
    - [Plugins](#plugins)
  - [Technical Details](#technical-details)
    - [The Web Frontend](#the-web-frontend)
    - [Marking Texts for Translation](#marking-texts-for-translation)
      - [Singular Form](#singular-form)
      - [Plural Form](#plural-form)
      - [Translating Constants](#translating-constants)
      - [Formatting Texts](#formatting-texts)
      - [TRANSLATORS Comments](#translators-comments)
      - [Missing Translations](#missing-translations)

---

Internationalization (sometimes abbreviated as "i18n") is a process for
supporting different languages and locales in software. This documentation
describes how is that handled in Agama.

Each Agama part (the web frontend, the D-Bus backend and the command line
interface) needs to solve this problem separately, see more details for each
part in the details below.

## Using Translations

Users have two ways how to change the used language in the Agama interface.

### URL Query Parameter

When using a remote installation it is possible to set the used language via an
URL query parameter. This is an expert option.

To change the language append the `?lang=<locale>` query to the URL when
accessing the Agama installer. The `locale` string uses the usual Linux locale
format, e.g. `cs_CZ`.

It is the user responsibility to use a correct locale name. When using a wrong
name the translations might be broken, displayed only partially or even not at
all.

Changing the language causes reloading the page, in some situations this could
cause losing some entered values on the current page. Therefore it is
recommended to change the language at the very beginning.

### Language Selector

*to be done...*

## Translations

For translation process Agama uses [Weblate](https://weblate.org/) tool running
at the [openSUSE](https://l10n.opensuse.org/) instance.

## The Workflow

The basic translation workflow looks like this:

1. The translatable texts are marked for translation in the source code, usually
   with the `_()` function or something similar
2. The translatable string are collected into a POT file which is uploaded to
   the staging [agama-weblate](https://github.com/openSUSE/agama-weblate) GitHub
   repository
3. The POT file is loaded by the Weblate into the
   [agama](https://l10n.opensuse.org/projects/agama/) project
4. Translators then can translate the English texts into other languages
5. Weblate pushes back the translations in the PO files back to the
   [agama-weblate](https://github.com/openSUSE/agama-weblate) repository
6. The translations in the PO files are regularly copied to the main repository
   using pull requests
7. The PO files are processed during build so the translations can be used
   later at runtime

*Note: The Agama workflow is pretty similar to the [Cockpit localization](
https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/blob/main/doc/i18n.md) workflow,
we decided to use a similar approach here.*

## Staging Translation Repository

The special [agama-weblate](https://github.com/openSUSE/agama-weblate)
repository works like a buffer between the Agama sources and the Weblate tool.

We do not want to spam the Weblate tool with every trivial change in the texts
and the other way round, we do not need to get dozen commits from the Weblate
every day with updated translations. This would be especially annoying
before releasing a new version where we might want to accept only unnecessary
changes to not break something at the very last minute.

The agama-weblate repository uses webhooks to notify the Weblate instance
of any change. Changes in the repository should be visible in Weblate in matter
of seconds.

## Synchronization

The content between the main [agama](https://github.com/openSUSE/agama) and
the translation [agama-weblate](https://github.com/openSUSE/agama-weblate)
GitHub repositories is synchronized automatically using the GitHub Actions.

### Uploading Translatable Texts

Collecting and uploading the translatable texts is done by the
[weblate-update-pot.yml](
https://github.com/openSUSE/agama/blob/master/.github/workflows/weblate-update-pot.yml)
GitHub action.

- It checks out both `agama` and `agama-weblate` repositories
- It runs a script which extracts the translatable strings in the `agama`
  repository into a POT file
- The POT file is copied to the `agama-weblate` repository and committed to
  the GitHub repository

This action is run daily, but it can be started manually if needed.
Go to the [weblate-update-pot.yml](
https://github.com/openSUSE/agama/actions/workflows/weblate-update-pot.yml)
action detail and use the "Run workflow" option at the top of the page.

The code compares the old POT file with the new one and if there is no change
besides the timestamps in the file it is not uploaded to `agama-weblate`.

### Downloading Updated Translations

The translations from the `agama-weblate` repository are merged back by the
[weblate-merge-po.yml](
https://github.com/openSUSE/agama/blob/master/.github/workflows/weblate-merge-po.yml)
GitHub action.

- It checks out both `agama` and `agama-weblate` repositories
- It copies the PO files from the `agama-weblate` to the `agama` repository
- It creates a pull request with the changes

If there are no changes besides the timestamps in the PO files the pull request
is not created.

## Weblate Configuration

The [Agama Weblate](https://l10n.opensuse.org/projects/agama/) project defines a
separate translation component for each Agama part (the web frontend, the D-Bus
backend and the command line interface).

For reading the translations it uses the [agama-weblate](
https://github.com/openSUSE/agama-weblate) GitHub repository, but for the source
code locations it uses the original [agama](https://github.com/openSUSE/agama)
repository. That means after clicking the source location link in the Weblate
you will see the correct source location in the other repository.

### Plugins

The Weblate components use the [msgmerge](
https://docs.weblate.org/en/weblate-4.9.1/admin/addons.html#addon-weblate-gettext-msgmerge)
plugin which automatically updates all PO files to match the POT file. That
means after adding or updating any translatable text the changes are
automatically applied to all existing PO files and translators can translate
the new or updated texts immediately.

## Technical Details

This part describes technical and implementation details. It also describes the
translation process for developers.

### The Web Frontend

Most of the translatable texts which can user see in Agama are defined in the
web frontend. However, the web frontend can display some translated texts coming
from the backend part so it is important to set the same language in both parts
and make sure the translations are available there.

### Marking Texts for Translation

The texts are marked for translation using the usual functions like `_()`,
`n_()` and others. It is similar to the GNU gettext style.

Currently Agama uses the Cockpit implementation for loading and displaying
translations. To make this process transparent for developers and to allow easy
change of the implementation there is a simple [i18n.js]( ../web/src/i18n.js)
wrapper which provides the translation functions:

```js
import { _, n_, N_, Nn_ } from "~/i18n";
```

It is important to use these functions only on string literals! Do not use them
with string templates or string concatenation, that will not work properly.

The `_` and `n_` functions can be used on variables or constants, but their
content must marked for translation using the `N_` or `Nn_` functions
on string literals. See the examples below.

#### Singular Form

This is the most common way:

```js
const title=_("Storage");
```

For using translated text in React components you need to use curly braces
to switch to plain Javascript in the attributes and the content:

```js
<Section title={_("Storage")}></Section>
```

or

```js
<Button>{_("Select")}</Button>
```

For translating long texts you might use multiline string literals:

```js
const description = _("Select the device for installing the system. All the \
file systems will be created on the selected device.");
```

If you need to insert some values into the text you should use the
[formatting function](#formatting-texts). It is recommended to use
[translator comments](#translators-comments) for short or ambiguous texts.

#### Plural Form

If the translated text contains a number or quantity it is good to use a plural
form so the translated texts looks naturally.

```js
sprintf(
  // the first argument is a singular form used when errors.length === 1,
  // the second argument is used in all other cases
  n_("%d error found", "%d errors found", errors.length),
  errors.length
)
```

Although the English language has only a single plural form the translators can
use more of them. The translation definition also defines a function that
computes which plural form to use for a specific number. See more details about
the [plural forms](
https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/manual/html_node/Plural-forms.html) in the
GNU gettext documentation.

#### Translating Constants

The top-level constants are evaluated too early, at that time the translations
are not available yet and the language is not set.

The constant value must be marked with `N_()` function which does nothing
and then later translated with the usual `_()` function.

```js
const LABELS = Object.freeze({
  auto: N_("Auto"),
  fixed: N_("Fixed"),
  range: N_("Range")
});

export default function Foo() {
  ...
  <label>{_(LABELS[value])}</label>
```

#### Formatting Texts

For formatting complex texts use the C-like `sprintf()` function.

```js
import { sprintf } from "sprintf-js";

sprintf(_("User %s will be created"), user)
```

See the [sprintf-js](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sprintf-js) documentation
for more details about the formatting specifiers.

It is recommended to avoid building texts from several parts translated
separately. This is error prone because the translators will not see the
complete final text and might translate some parts inaccurately.

```js
// do NOT use this! it is difficult to translate the parts correctly
// so they build a nice text after merging
return <div>{_("User ")}<b>{user}</b>{_(" will be created")}</div>

// rather translate a complete text and then split it into parts
// TRANSLATORS: %s will be replaced by the user name
const [msg1, msg2] = _("User %s will be created").split("%s");
...
return <div>{msg1}<b>{user}</b>{msg2}</div>
```

Text splitting might be quite complex in some cases, but still should be
preferred.

```js
// TRANSLATORS: error message, the text in square brackets [] is a clickable link
const [msgStart, msgLink, msgEnd] = _("An error occurred. \
Check the [details] for more information.").split(/[[\]]/);
...
return <p>{msgStart}<a>{msgLink}</a>{msgEnd}</p>;
```

Building sentences from separate parts might be easy in English, but is some
other languages it might much more complex. Always assume that the target
language has more complex grammar and rules.

```js
// do NOT use this! it is difficult to translate "enabled" and "not enabled"
// differently in the target language!
const msgNot = enabled ? "" : "not";
sprintf(_("Service is %s enabled"), msgNot);

// this is better
enabled ? _("Service is enabled") : _("Service is disabled");
```

#### TRANSLATORS Comments

You can use a special `TRANSLATORS` keyword in the comment preceding the text
marked for translation. All comments after the keyword are included in the
translations file, this should help the translator to correctly translate the
text.

```js
// this line is NOT included in the PO file
// TRANSLATORS: this line is included in the PO file,
// this line as well
_("Back")
```

The translators comments should be used especially for short texts to better
describe the meaning and the context of the message.

```js
// TRANSLATORS: button label, going back to the main page
_("Back")
```

Also the formatting placeholders should be always described.

```js
// TRANSLATORS: %s will be replaced by the user name
_("User %s will be created")
```

The JSX code does not support comments natively, you have to write them in curly
braces.

```js
<Button>
  {/* TRANSLATORS: button label */}
  {_("Remove")}
</Button>
```

But in the component attributes you can use usual Javascript comments.

```js
<TextInput
  id="port"
  name="port"
  value={data.port || ""}
  // TRANSLATORS: network port number
  label={_("Port")}
/>
```

The translators can change the order of the arguments if needed using additional
positional arguments. For example to change the order of the arguments in `"Foo
%s %s"` they can translate it as `"Bar %2$s %1$s"`.

#### Missing Translations

Here are some code examples which might look correct at the first sight. They
even work, no crash. But there are still translation problems with them.

- Do not use Javascript string templates, that does not work at all
  (~~``_(`User ${user} will be created`)``~~), use a string formatting function
  for that (`sprintf(_("User %s will be created"), user)`).

- Use the translation functions only with string literals without any operators,
  texts like ~~`_("foo" + "bar")`~~ will not be extracted correctly to the POT
  file.
